I got to have a conversation with the
head of Instagram for business, Thomas
Fenetto. Instagram for business is the
official account by Instagram
specifically dedicated for business
owners and brands who want to grow and
make money selling their products or
services on Instagram. That account,
which Thomas Fenetto helps lead, has
over 20 million followers and they share
tips, resources, and some memes about
building a business on Instagram. But
unlike any other account that is giving
you tips, advice, and memes, including
my own, this account is actually on
Instagram's payroll. They are an
official account of Instagram. And so
that means the people who help run this
account, including Thomas, are privy to
some insider information. They might not
know every single detail about the
algorithm, but you can bet that they
know a little bit more than most. In
this conversation, you're going to hear
some really helpful tips and ideas and
even some hot takes from Thomas. And I
do want to put out a disclaimer that
these are not official statements from
Instagram or Meta. These are simply
Thomas' opinions and suggestions. This
was kind of an impromptu conversation
and so I wasn't able to have the full
production value and production budget
that I had for my conversation with Adam
Oeri, the head of Instagram. In reality,
this entire interview was basically shot
on iPhone. The video is iPhone and the
audio quality comes from an iPhone
microphone as well. Without further ado,
here is my interview of Thomas Fenetto,
head of Instagram for business. So, we
were talking before we got started here.
Um, and you said something that I
thought was so true and something that I
think everyone listening to my podcast
should hear because I'm followed by so
many small business owners with one
person on their team, maybe two, three
people on their team, and you were
talking about
>> leadership having trust in the content
creators. Can you talk more about why
that matters and why you think that's so
important for for brands who are using
Instagram?
I've been working at Meta for 10 years.
I've worked on the B2B marketing side
and and recently the B2B social side of
things. I have I can't tell you how many
hundreds of of uh social marketers of
marketers I've interviewed and the the
most common thing that I see from brands
who really understand social and this is
both for organic and paid is trust from
leadership. Mhm.
>> If you have a leader who recognizes
enough that they don't know what the
hell is going on or a leader that says
like, "Okay, I see that you guys just
need to move fast on this one so that
you don't miss like an opportunity,
>> a trend, a a cultural event." Uh then
that is the biggest differentiator. I've
seen it time and time again. And I can
give you examples if you want of some of
the best channels. I mean,
>> straight off the bat, Dolingo,
>> incredible. We actually we interviewed
the head of social at Away yesterday.
>> Okay.
>> And they've been doing some incredible
stuff.
>> They do lots of great like brand uh like
brand collabs with like really big like
really really big IP.
>> Mh.
>> And um Rionire in in the EU has been one
of those brands on like they were
killing it on Twitter two years ago.
Like they they just out of nowhere and
it's because leadership were like okay
blank check. you guys can move as fast
as you need to
>> and give them a safe space. And all of
these brands, by the way, they get it
wrong.
>> But the beauty of social is that it just
moves on so fast. Yep.
>> The there's it's all upside and very
little downside.
>> Unless you're like,
>> and there are some really interesting
stories like the the head of social at
Ryionaire, uh, which is it's an Irish,
uh, airline, but they they kind of cater
to all of Europe. They're the budget
airline, I guess, the Spirit Airways
equivalent.
>> They uh they posted a meme about um a
member of the royal family.
>> Uh you can go and find it yourselves. I
won't say it was very like rude, but
they they they
knew how to position it. They didn't
name names. They they kind of made it
clear enough that you knew what was
being talked about.
>> And um the royal family got involve
involved, which in the UK is like a huge
scandal. Yeah. It's uh it's it's
massive. And uh but they you know they
they knew what they were doing and um
that just goes to show like they might
have lost a couple of you know couple of
people on that one
>> but the people that they gained.
>> The other thing is like you you cannot
please everyone. So if you're a marketer
out there and you you've got a couple of
different cohorts of ages, demographics
that you're trying to reach,
>> pick one. Just start with one. Knock one
domino over and the rest follow. I love
that. I love the just the thinking and
the reminder of there's so much upside
and the downside is it's social. It
moves quickly. Like we're on to the
next. We see thousands of posts a day.
We're on to the next. Um and I think
that's so great to hear. I love the
examples that we're reminded of. These
are giant companies who have a lot to
lose. Uh billiondoll giant IPs. Um and
they're giving their social media team,
their content team free reign to to kind
of, you know, be loose cannons a little
bit. Um, and so even the small business
owner who's listening to this who might
have a twoperson team, like it's
important for them to embrace that as
well. Even if they're a one person team,
they're a solo entrepreneur, then I
would say trust yourself to just create
content, create fast, and not edit your
own self so much. You know,
>> this is the other thing that like one of
my biggest pet peeves about social media
marketers
>> um is, oh, we we can only post once
every two days because we have to give
the post space.
Someone this morning commented on one of
my posts. We're doing a 30-day res
challenge and they said, "Well, what if
one of my posts is doing well and I want
to let it breathe?
Let it breathe." And and whenever
someone says that to me, I'm like, "Oh,
you must be killing it. Like, every one
of your posts must be going viral." And
they go, "No." I'm like, "Well, how do
you know?"
>> Mhm.
>> But like I you'd much better off posting
five times a day, every day. you learn
so much faster and then at the end of
that 30 days, 90 days, stop,
>> look at what worked well, learn like
then re recreate your strategy based on
what you know works with your audience
for your brand.
>> And then the other thing I I always say
is repost some of that content. If it's
evergreen, you only ever hit on a good
day like 5% of your audience,
>> so post it again. It's like proven
content that you already have in the
hopper, like
>> 100%. and you've already done the work
and no one's going to remember. And if
they do, that very minute, small 1% of
people who remember, they remember
because it was that good and they
wouldn't mind seeing it again. It's like
your favorite movie. It was that good.
You remember it. You wouldn't mind
seeing it again.
>> I always tell people like, "What's your
favorite TV show?" And they'll go, "I
don't know, uh, The Office." And I'm
like, "If your favorite episode of The
Office came up on TV,
>> what would you do?" Exactly.
>> Like, I would watch it again. like
you're speaking to someone who's seen
every episode 40 times, so I know
exactly what you're saying. Uh let's
talk about some of the the biggest uh
mistakes that you see brands making on
social. Um you don't have to name names,
call anyone out, but you know, any
overarching things that you're like, oo,
you know, I maybe that's outdated, maybe
it never was effective in the first
place, but just mistakes people are
making. I mean, all the usual things,
overly polished, trying to uh take what
you know, their TV ad or their print ad
and then just post slapping it on social
because we spent the money, might as
well put it on social.
>> Um, and that really annoys me because
there's so many fun ways that you can do
BTS content from a shoot. You just just
get your social media manager out there
in the first place. Don't give it to
them after it's all said and done. Um,
and then
yeah, I mean going back to the
leadership thing, uh, speed, trust.
>> Mhm.
>> If you don't have those things, you're
not starting off in a very good place.
And then entertainment.
>> Mhm.
>> I think it's it, if you'd asked me 3
years ago, I'd be like, yeah, brands
really need to start thinking of
themselves as entertainers.
And now it's impossible to ignore. like
the brands that aren't thinking like how
are we entertaining people? Entertaining
can mean a lot of things to a lot of
people.
>> Glad you said that.
>> I think comedy relatability is the
easiest one to start with if that works
for your brand. But you can also
entertain people through storytelling,
through, you know, having uh having
people tell their like really
passionate stories about themselves or
like your users, customers, like that
can be entertaining
as well.
>> Um, but if Yeah, if if you don't have
entertainment baked into your strategy,
>> I I just I think you're not starting
from a very good place.
>> Yeah, I wholeheartedly agree. And I love
that you gave those illustrations
because I can hear the voices in the
people's heads as they're listening,
which is like, well, but my brand, I
don't want to entertain. I don't want to
dance. I don't want to You don't have to
dance. You don't have to be a clown, but
storytelling. I mean, that's tens of
thousands of year old. It's not a new
idea, but it's captivating, right? I one
of my favorite facts is uh that a story
is 22 times more memorable than a fact.
Tell a story and people are going to
remember it. it's going to stick with
them so much more.
>> One of my favorite quotes of all time
and I say it a lot uh is it was someone
during the the Second World War or the
First World War said there's some
journalist but it was uh the death of a
thousand men is a statistic. The death
of one man is a tragedy.
>> And that just illustrates perfectly what
you just said. the story, if you know
the story of one person dying in a war
and knowing who that person is and what
they lost is way more powerful than all
of these like massive numbers.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's I it if you fast forward uh you
know 80 years and think about like what
Apple did with the with the iPod, a
thousand songs in your pocket.
>> It could have been a thousand songs in
your media player wouldn't have worked.
It could have been
>> uh one gigabyte of memory in your media
player wouldn't have worked. Yeah.
>> That's all that's all you need to know.
>> Yeah. I love your examples. Can you
share any other brands or or accounts
you can think of that are using
Instagram in maybe creative or unique
ways? I thought, you know, when I had my
conversation with Adam, it was
interesting. He brought up there was
this one account that he followed that
every month they would unfollow everyone
they followed and they would follow a
new group of people that all related to
a certain subject. So maybe during
mental health awareness month, they'd
follow a bunch of mental health creators
or assoc associations. Um it was just a
cool way like no one really thinks of
who they follow as an opportunity for
content and connection, but any other
creative unique Instagram use cases that
you remember. I just because I it's
fresh in my mind and we spoke to a way
recently they they recently launched uh
a new a new line of like luggage
>> and they used close friends
>> and I have I haven't seen any brands
using close friends and in in a world
now where like
>> you don't need to pay a million dollars
for the big influencer who probably has
another 10 brand deals posting that day
>> it's all about getting these niche
creators at scale.
>> So using close friends is such an
unlock.
>> How did they how did they use it? What
was the do you remember strategy?
>> They they added, I think, a bunch of
niche creators uh to their close friends
and they just started posting exclusive
content about this new line that no one
else knew about.
>> And because it pops up in your stories
or on your feed with the little green
thing, it's like it stands out. It's
different. It's almost like
>> a free ad. you know, people usually pay
a lot of money to get the little a popup
with the um
>> uh with, you know, click here or like
tap here or buy now,
>> but
Instagram wants you to use all of their
features. So, if you're a big brand with
a big following and you start using
close friends in a new way, the I I I I
can't confirm or deny this, but
obviously like we want everyone to use
Instagram's features. So that's like a
little bit of an unlock that can give
you that edge in and then it's just a
new way of using a product that not not
many brands use.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I know. I I've there's a few
creators who I follow who have done
something similar. Adding people to
close friends. Maybe they have a VIP
list they're adding to close friends.
Just creative ways. Um but I haven't
seen any brands use it and that's super
creative. Something that I hear from a
lot of people is that they are people
with a local following or they need a
local following because they're the
local bakery. They're the nail salon.
They do photography in New Jersey. So,
they need that local following. Do you
have any tips, strategies, or any unique
use cases where people have been able to
build a local following? Because I I I
totally agree with people um that, you
know, usually your posts are just going
to go out to the masses. Like my posts
are going to reach people worldwide. And
I don't say that to brag or boast. I say
that because hey, my followers aren't
just in Utah where I live. So, what are
your thoughts?
>> There's a great donuts chain in the UK
called Dough Hut. They have they have
like three or four. This is not really a
chain. They're starting to like grow.
>> And part of the reason uh that they
became so successful is that they
figured out the entertaining thing. They
know how to make great entertaining
reels.
>> They basically just like gave their
employees their Instagram account, which
happens a lot. And I don't know why not
like other brands aren't catching on.
>> You just let your employees have fun. We
should talk about employee generated
content next cuz I have hot takes there.
>> Oh, let's hear.
>> Um but they they did that and they were
like, "Oh my god, we're getting millions
of views on like all all of these reels.
This is amazing." But they were all like
Argentina
South America, India. And then it
doesn't really help us in our like donut
shop in Leeds UK. And that's where
that's where targeting comes in. That's
where ads can like
>> because the the whole Instagram meta
want businesses to make money.
>> They if if our ad products aren't
working for businesses, we don't have a
business. We can't build the metaverse.
We can't like make AI work.
>> So it is imperative that ads work for
you, which is we always say rorowass
return on ad spend is like the golden
metric. Um, so that when you know
creative works
>> and you have these incredible ad tools,
targeting tools like you have an ads
manager and now it's easier than ever.
I'm going to plug Advantage plus uh
shopping campaigns or Advantage Plus
campaigns.
>> It just does everything for you.
You can actually like take that amazing
creative and then just localize it
>> and then you'll see you might have been
spending, I don't know, $5 for a
conversion. Mhm.
>> And now you're spending like 5 cents for
a conversion because you've got the
right
>> the right creative
>> in the right local area. People will
come into your shop and they'll buy in
your brick and mortar if that's what you
want to do.
>> You also have like um there's a new
product at the moment called omni
channel ads
>> which basically like meta figures out
which customers are more likely to buy
online versus which customers are more
likely to buy offline and come into your
store. Mhm.
>> That used to be a really time consuming
thing to do. You'd have multiple ad sets
running at the same time. You need to
hire like a team or an agency. You'd be
spending like thousands before you even
get to the point that people see the
ads.
>> But now with with omni channel ads,
basically it just it does it for you and
it figures it out in the background.
>> Wow. Super cool. I would also say to
speak to to Donut Hut and that virality,
it's social proof. So, like, yes, the
content is proven to work, but now if
I'm in leads and I see that there's this
doughnut shop that's going viral and
they have all these followers, I'm more
likely to go there. I'm I'm hearing
about them more. Um, so while yes, the
organic growth might not be exactly who
you want, reaching the masses has value,
and I love the idea of then retargeting
with ads. Um, I went to a Pokémon card
shop here in New York, and I'm not from
New York. They I just found out about
them because they had collaborated with
other people in their community. And so
I'm a big fan of when local businesses
collaborate with their community,
whether it's creators or other
businesses even in their community
because that's how I found them. I
follow one of the creators who they
collabed with and found them. But
anyways, uh let's talk about what you
have some hot takes about. Um employee
generated content. I think a lot of
people are familiar with usergenerated
content, which is where your customer
>> creates content for your brand or
business. Oftentimes paid, sometimes
it's testimonials, whatnot.
>> But what's employee generated content?
What are your hot takes?
>> So employee generated content is pretty
self-explanatory. Um it's essentially
having your employees act like
>> creators or users.
>> Um we had a great example. OG Cosmetics
uh was in this morning uh and we we
spoke to their CMO and they said their
best ever ad was just having one of
their employees act like a like a user,
a you know, someone who bought some of
their their makeup
>> and just talked very casually about like
what she liked about it and they ran
that and it was like it was better than
anything they'd ever made. it cost them
nothing to to make the the creative.
>> And I just think we're we're in this
place where so many businesses just
still feel like they have to be they're
so scared of like letting go of this
polished brand of this like premium
feel.
>> Um especially when it comes to to social
that they never experiment. So you have
these moments where
>> you allow an employee who by the way
know your products super well. So they
know the value prop, they they know the
marketing, they're less likely to go
like offscript and say something
dangerous. Yes.
>> Which is the sometimes the risk with a
creator or you know um taking someone
working with someone external.
>> Uh and they'll they'll create something
that they're genuinely you make them
more excited like they'll have fun.
They'll come to work. You'll probably
improve your employee retention which is
another like
>> side symptom of all of this which is
just a net positive for the business.
But when you post that content, it feels
different. It feels native. Um,
especially if you have young employees
that live and breathe social
>> in ways that like we probably don't
know. Even me, like being like a little
bit older than a lot of the amazing
people that work here at Meta.
>> Like I'm my experience on Instagram and
all of these platforms is probably a
little bit different from theirs.
>> And they're like jumping and seeing tren
jumping on trends much faster than I am.
>> Yeah. So, we we started doing this thing
uh internally. We call them creative
hackathons where it's like pens down, no
meetings, cancel everything. We're just
going to spend 5 hours making as many
ress as we can and having fun. M
>> and I can't give you exact numbers but
you can probably imagine like the
>> the rorowaz the uh the investment versus
it's not really row but like the return
on like views that we get for the
investment is like night and day.
>> Oh, I can't even imagine. And that'd be
such a good tip for anyone listening is
block out 2 hours on your calendar and
treat social like work. Don't treat it,
you know, like as something as an
afterthought that will get done when you
have time. Put it on your calendar,
block out that time, but then during
that time, no meetings, no pens, just
create, create, create, create, create.
Um, and it kind of allows you to become
like an artist and and the best artists
are the ones who didn't make 10
paintings in their life. They painted
50,000 paintings and we know 10 of them.
>> Yeah. And that's that's that's a really
good point um that I also love to talk
about is when you farm out your social
no shade against like social media
agencies or people out there who are
really helping brands understand social
>> um but if you're a brand and you you're
in a position to allow employees to do
this for you, those employees are
learning those skills.
>> You now you own those skills. You don't
have to keep out. It's like teaching
someone to fish versus giving them a
fish.
>> So, if they do it for long enough,
they're learning all of these new
skills. You're paying those employees
anyway. So, it's overhead that you can
either put to good use or you don't. And
just I I another another one of my hot
takes is I just
in previous like in a previous life I
worked for a big um big advertising
agency and I just don't think that these
big ad agencies or creative agencies can
keep up with the the trends and the
demand and the scale that is required of
social.
>> Yeah. Uh, I haven't seen any yet and I
think they probably do exist, but
they're few and far between. So, most
times you have these brands that are
paying like
>> like 5 to 10 grand per post.
>> And then if you think of like what you
can do in one morning, you can probably
pump out 10 reels
>> and each one of those will get like
infinitely more views, reach, be way
more effective than anything that like a
scripted reel can like can generate. So,
I'm just like the the amount of money
that goes to waste sometimes. And I
would rather every business takes a
little bit more time and it it does it
takes a while. It's it's something that
doesn't come naturally to a lot of
people, but hire the right talent.
Uh don't don't hire traditional
marketing talent if you can. like there
are some great copywriters out there,
but maybe consider hiring a comedy
writer,
>> someone you never would have hired for
like full-time staff,
>> but now actually their skills fit
perfectly into social.
>> And if you can tap into that virality
even a little bit, I always say don't go
viral.
>> Don't aim to go viral. aim to go a
little bit viral every day
>> very slowly because if you add up that
virality over the course of like
>> months,
>> it probably outdoes one massive viral
post. So don't stress about one big
thing. Just like what works for you,
figure it out and then just do that
>> and like twist it, like tweak it, make
sure that it's like always a little bit
fresh,
>> you're still keeping your um your users,
>> your your viewers and your followers
entertained. Um, repost as much as
possible.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh, I would also I would say like once
or twice a week for some brands, just
repost existing content.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, yeah.
>> Love that. Um, Stan, who is the producer
of this podcast, they put out a help
wanted ad on on their story recently. I
don't know if they hired this person,
but they were looking for a meme
marketer, someone who's just going to
create memes for them. And like that's
something that 10 years ago, no one
memes were like this niche thing on the
corner of the internet that you know
maybe 20 years ago, but people know no
one knew what a meme was. It was just
like a troll face or a kid's yearbook
photo. And now brands are hiring entire
positions who are just going to make
memes. Y
>> so I love that. Um
>> we've done that.
>> It's so smart.
>> And if you're scared, if there's a brand
out there that's like, "Oh, we would
never do something as like lowfi as
memes." Check out uh Sense. They're a
fashion uh brand here in New York.
>> They make really high quality memes,
like high like very high-fi memes.
>> Check them out. They're they're so so
good.
>> One of my favorite is uh the Utah
Department of Transportation. We
actually had her on the podcast. They're
a government agency and they're creating
memes, but it does its job, right? It's
effectively communicating these ideas,
uh just using memes to do it. So, I love
that. Uh last question is can you share
with me some things that you think
people are overthinking or or stressing
out too much over uh from your
perspective? You know I have my own
takes of things I think people worry too
much about but what do you think?
>> I think when it comes to social brands
especially are overthinking everything.
Just take just honestly
>> take a beat just relax a second like um
look at spend some time online I think.
So there are so many social marketers
who are working on like producing
content for platforms that they don't
themselves use authentically.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you're like what where is where
where's this information coming from?
Like everyone is so is way too focused
on how many hashtags to use and not
focused enough on like what would I like
to see?
>> Love it.
>> That's the that's the short answer.
>> And then this is another hot take for
you. Um, I think doing competitor
analysis on your competitors on social
is the worst. It's like a guaranteed way
if everything goes perfectly for you to
get just behind your competitors.
>> That's I love that.
>> Why would you waste all of that time on
being second best?
>> Don't do a competitor analysis. Do a
platform analysis. Like look at other
verticals. What is working well? And
this is a great example of this is
realtors. Mhm.
>> Ever since uh that realtor, I don't know
where he's from, but he did the Gen Z
edit, stumbled across it. Um, and he was
pro he probably had a an editor who was
looking at like, I really love memes on
Instagram. I really love this
entertaining style of uh of of content.
I'm just going to try it. I'm going to
take this thing that works from a very
different vertical,
>> what works on like macro wise on the
platform, and I'm going to bring it to
this very specific industry.
And then boom, he was dominating the
ind. It's like when they zigg you zag.
That's exactly that's basically what it
is. So don't do competitor anal. Don't
waste time with competitor analysis. Do
a platform analysis. Steal stuff from
other verticals. Be the one brand in
your vertical which is doing something
that no one else can do. And then
everyone will be doing a competitor
analysis on you.
>> Yeah, Thomas, this is so good. Thank you
so much. I appreciate you.
>> No worries. One of the biggest quotes
that stood out for me from that entire
conversation is when Thomas said that
brands need to think of themselves as
entertainers first. And I could not
agree more. Now, I understand that that
statement might be a little bit scary
because the initial interpretation might
be that as a brand or business owner on
social media, you need to be like a
circus clown. You need to learn to
dance. You need to start juggling and
start being extravagant and over the top
in your reels. And I just don't think
that's true. And I know that that's not
what Thomas meant when he said that.
What he simply meant is that every
single post you make needs to be viewed
from the standpoint of is this
entertaining? Is this post as a whole
entertaining? Is this scene or this cut
or this clip in the post entertaining?
Is this individual sentence
entertaining? Is this word, yes, getting
that nitpicky. Is this individual word
helpful, useful, or entertaining in
order to keep someone watching? Or is
this clip, sentence, or word just not
necessary and a little bit boring?
Focusing on entertainment first is how
you're going to get more views. And in
this oversaturated, hyperco competitive
landscape, this social media world that
we're in nowadays where it's harder than
ever before to get seen even by the
people who follow you, when you focus on
entertainment first, you're able to
reach more people and you're able to
reach the right people. I think that the
easiest way to create entertaining
content is actually to create
shareworthy content. Shareworthy content
is a term we use all the time here at
Build Your Tribe. That basically means
the content, the posts that are worthy
of being shared or sent from one person
to another. I did an entire episode
about shareworthy content and the five
different kinds of shareworthy content a
few weeks ago. So, if you haven't
already checked that out, I'll link that
up on the screen right now and it'll be
down in the show notes as well because
basically if your content is more
shareworthy, it will be more
entertaining and thus it will get more
views. And the final thing I'll say
before I quit my yapping is just thank
you really from the bottom of my heart.
This YouTube channel has been growing
super fast over the last few months,
over a thousand subscribers a week. And
my goal is to hit 100K subscribers by
the end of the year. So if you haven't
already, make sure to hit that subscribe
button because according to my most
recent stats when I'm looking at my
YouTube studio, about 80% of viewers, so
80% of people who are hearing the
sentence right now are not actually
subscribed to the channel. So don't
forget to hit that subscribe button.
Let's at least get it to like I don't
know 30% of the viewers are subscribed.
But again, I just want to say thank you
so much to everyone who has taken a
quick moment to make sure that they are
subscribed. And really truly from the
bottom of my heart, I appreciate you.
I'll see you next week. And as always,
happy networking.